Our program is more or less working.
There are still a couple of things we have to do.
But first I want a quick discussion about the standard IO object right here and also the three other
methods or functions inside that child process module.
So let's get to it.
First off what is standard Io OK.
So this is a diagram of exactly what happens when we start up a program from our terminal.
This is not necessarily a no JSA application.
This is really any type of program.
So our terminal starts up some new kind of program or to be more precise we are using our terminal to
create a process when this process is created.
It gets it signed three different communication channels these different channels that we refer to as
standard in standard out and standard air abbreviated is in the way that you see right here are used
to communicate with this running process standard in can be used to receive some information directly
from our terminal.
So for example if we type something into our terminal while our program is running that input is sent
to standard in our program can choose to optionally listen to that incoming input and do something with
it then ever our program decides to do a console log or throw an error it's going to emit this information
over the other two channels standard out and standard air standard out is used to communicate any normal
logs.
So like if we just want to communicate some information to the outside world via a console log or something
similar we use standard out for that whenever you call a console log inside of a node J.S. application
standard out is what is being used to communicate that information back over to our terminal standard
error is being used anytime that you throw an error of any kind.
So if we throw an error or what to otherwise display some error text our process right some information
to this standard error channel which then sends that error information back over to our terminal.
So that's the basics of standard in standard out and standard air every single process that we create
has its own three separate channels.
So how does this relate to when we create a child process.
Well essentially when we create a child process we essentially have our process making this thing down
here.
And in this scenario the standard in and standard out and standard errors that are being created for
the child process don't have anywhere to send their information to.
So these are kind of just like blank lines that go out into nothingness.
Nothing is waiting to receive the output from Standard and or standard error or give input to standard
in the purpose of that standard.
I oh right here of inherit is really just saying when we create this child process take the standard
in standard out and standard error that belong to our current process and essentially just wire all
that stuff together.
So if the child process puts out any normal log message it's going to be automatically forwarded on
to our processes standard out which in turn gets sent back over to the terminal which is why we saw
a console log from the what we call it test dot J.S. file.
Same thing with standard error if we have any air from that child process it's going to get forwarded
to our processes standard error which in turn is can be sent on to the terminal as well so that is the
purpose of standard Io inherit if we do not pass in any value for that.
So in other words if we remove that object altogether then now we are not doing that forwarding anymore.
So if we now reran our program let's actually do that right now.
So I'll run stop this with a control C and then restart it with.
Watch it.
Test.
Yes.
Now we're not going to see any console logs or any errors or anything like that because we are no longer
forwarding that output information back over to our terminal.
So that's a bit more on that options object.
I'm going to undo that change and re save the file.
Let's take another quick pause right here when we come back in just a moment.
We'll discuss those three other methods that are available inside the child process module.